# Introduction to Data Structures and Algorithms

- Data Structures is about how data can be stored in different structures.
- Algorithms is about how to solve different problems, often by searching through and manipulating data structures.

## Data structures

- First, let's consider an example without computers in mind, just to get the idea.
- If we want to store data about people we are related to, we use a family tree as the data structure. We choose a family tree as the data structure because we have information about people we are related to and how they are related, and we want an overview so that we can easily find a specific family member, several generations back.
- With such a family tree data structure visually in front of you, it is easy to see, for example, who my mother's mother is—it is 'Emma,' right? But without the links from child to parents that this data structure provides, it would be difficult to determine how the individuals are related.
- Data structures are essential ingredients in creating fast and powerful algorithms. They help in managing and organizing data, reduce complexity, and increase efficiency.
- In Computer Science there are two different kinds of data structures.
  - Primitive Data Structures (integers, floating-point numbers, characters, and booleans)
  - Abstract Data Structures (arrays, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, and graphs)

## Algorithms

- An algorithm is a set of step-by-step instructions to solve a given problem or achieve a specific goal.

## Data Structures together with Algorithms 

- By understanding DSA, you can:
  - Decide which data structure or algorithm is best for a given situation.
  - Make programs that run faster or use less memory.
  - Understand how to approach complex problems and solve them in a systematic way.

## Theory and Terminology 

|Term |	Description|
| :-----: | :-----|
| Algorithm       |	A set of step-by-step instructions to solve a specific problem.|
| Data Structure  |	A way of organizing data so it can be used efficiently. Common data structures include arrays, linked lists, and binary trees.|
| Time Complexity |	A measure of the amount of time an algorithm takes to run, depending on the amount of data the algorithm is working on.|
| Space Complexity |	A measure of the amount of memory an algorithm uses, depending on the amount of data the algorithm is working on.|
| Big O Notation |	A mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity. Used in this tutorial to describe the time complexity of an algorithm.|
| Recursion |	A programming technique where a function calls itself.|
| Divide and Conquer |	A method of solving complex problems by breaking them into smaller, more manageable sub-problems, solving the sub-problems, and combining the solutions. Recursion is often used when using this method in an algorithm.|
| Brute Force |	A simple and straight forward way an algorithm can work by simply trying all possible solutions and then choosing the best one.|